exampleSite/utilities/README.md, before:

# Utilities
These scripts help devopsdays organizers manage their events.

## Contributing

The technical details and guidelines for contributing to this repository are outlined in [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

New utilities and updates to existing utilities are welcome, as are suggestions for default content. Add new script in [contrib](contrib/).

## Events

Use [add_new_event.sh](add_new_event.sh) to add a new event.

1. If your city name contains spaces or special characters, the script will remove them for purposes of the event stub, which will be used in the URL and have a name like `yyyy-city`.
1. The script will create a data file for your event in `data/events/yyyy-city.yml`. This is where you will configure many of your updates and customizations. In particular, you need to list your local organizer team here.
1. The script will populate your event directory in `content/events/yyyy-city` with default content. You should edit it as desired.
1. Once you have created a logo graphic, place it in `static/events/yyyy-city/logo.png`. (The file MUST be called `logo.png`.) The sample welcome page has a commented-out element to display a logo named in this way. For front-page use, you also need a square version in `static/events/yyyy-city/logo-square.jpg` (url configurable in your datafile).

## Sponsors

Many sponsors are sponsors for multiple devopsdays. If a sponsor listing already exists with the correct information, you can just add them to your datafile.

The sample datafile has some sponsor levels pre-populated; edit as desired. You will want to decide what's in your sponsor packages before accepting most types of sponsors (other than Community).

### Adding a new sponsor

Use [add_sponsors.sh](add_sponsors.sh) to easily add new sponsors. (Only do this if the sponsor doesn't already exist.)

1. Sponsors need a file in the data directory, as such: `data/sponsors/sponsorname.yml`. Before creating a new one, look to see if there is an old one, possibly with a date prepended. If it has the right URL and logo, you should use it instead of creating a new one.
1. Put the images for your sponsors in the `static/img/sponsors` directory. They need to be PNG files and named exactly after the name of the sponsor in your event file (and the corresponding sponsor data file), i.e., `static/img/sponsors/sponsorname.png`.
1. Add the new sponsor to your event's datafile with the appropriate level.

See [contrib/make_sponsors.rb](make_sponsors.rb) for another option.

### Updating a sponsor

If you want to update a sponsor, keep in mind that we don't want to retroactively change history for past events. See this [previous discussion](https://github.com/devopsdays/devopsdays-web/pull/503) for guidance. Basically you need to preserve past history before defining a changed default.

### Sponsor logos

Guidelines regarding sponsor logo files and formatting:

* The dimensions of the image file must be 200px square.
* The background must be either white or transparent.
* There must *not* be a border (one will be added using CSS).

All logos will be constrained, via markup, to 100px square; combined with the image file dimensions, this allows for high-density display (ex. Retina) compatibility.

Use [contrib/resize_sponsor_logo.sh](resize_sponsor_logo.sh) to convert a logo centered into the right dimensions.

## Speakers

Use [add_speakers.sh](add_speakers.sh) to add speakers and talks to an existing event. It will produce speaker-specific pages that link to their talk pages.

You can set additional optional frontmatter for speaker files:

```
Website = ""
Facebook = ""
Linkedin = ""
Pronouns = ""
```

If you have a two-speaker talk, create both speakers, add the talk under one of them, and set the talk file in `content/events/2017-ponyville/program/rainbow-dash.md` with a Speakers attribute like this:

```
Speakers = ["rainbow-dash","twilight-sparkle"]
```

### Program

Use [add_program.sh](add_program.sh) to add the program for your event. The program template expects 4 full talks each day and lists default times, but you can customize. The program data is stored in the event datafile such as `data/events/2017-ponyville.yml`. You don't need to know any or all of your speakers when adding the sample program, but if you have selected speakers you can list them on the program with this script.


### Speaker Images
The headshots for your speaker images should be exactly 500px wide. (They display at 250px wide, but add them at 500px wide in order to make them look good on retina displays.) They must be in JPG format and named with the `.jpg` extension.

# Adding slides and video

After the event, you can set additional optional frontmatter for talk files such as `content/events/2017-ponyville/program/rainbow-dash.md`:

```
youtube = ""
vimeo = ""
speakerdeck = ""
slideshare = ""
slides = ""
```

Commit message:

Update utilities with some small changes (#288)
* Add description field to sample event

It’s empty right now, but this might encourage people to populate it.

Signed-off-by: Matt Stratton <matt.stratton@gmail.com>

* Tweak sample city data file

Remove unneeded `event_logo_square` key.

Added more example fields for team members.

Signed-off-by: Matt Stratton <matt.stratton@gmail.com>

* Update README with some additional instructions.

Signed-off-by: Matt Stratton <matt.stratton@gmail.com>

* Add menu icons to sample data file

Signed-off-by: Matt Stratton <matt.stratton@gmail.com>

* Add social sharing clarification.

* Update sample city file with a more clear homepage value

* Remove reference to resizing script

* Remove sponsor resize script

No longer required

exampleSite/utilities/README.md, after:

# Utilities
These scripts help devopsdays organizers manage their events.

## Contributing

The technical details and guidelines for contributing to this repository are outlined in [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).

New utilities and updates to existing utilities are welcome, as are suggestions for default content. Add new script in [contrib](contrib/).

## Events

Use [add_new_event.sh](add_new_event.sh) to add a new event.

1. If your city name contains spaces or special characters, the script will remove them for purposes of the event stub, which will be used in the URL and have a name like `yyyy-city`.
1. The script will create a data file for your event in `data/events/yyyy-city.yml`. This is where you will configure many of your updates and customizations. In particular, you need to list your local organizer team here.
1. The script will populate your event directory in `content/events/yyyy-city` with default content. You should edit it as desired.
1. Once you have created a logo graphic, place it in `static/events/yyyy-city/logo.png`. (The file MUST be called `logo.png`.) The sample welcome page has a commented-out element to display a logo named in this way. For front-page use, you also need a square version in `static/events/yyyy-city/logo-square.jpg` (url configurable in your datafile).

## Sponsors

Many sponsors are sponsors for multiple devopsdays. If a sponsor listing already exists with the correct information, you can just add them to your datafile.

The sample datafile has some sponsor levels pre-populated; edit as desired. You will want to decide what's in your sponsor packages before accepting most types of sponsors (other than Community).

### Adding a new sponsor

Use [add_sponsors.sh](add_sponsors.sh) to easily add new sponsors. (Only do this if the sponsor doesn't already exist.)

1. Sponsors need a file in the data directory, as such: `data/sponsors/sponsorname.yml`. Before creating a new one, look to see if there is an old one, possibly with a date prepended. If it has the right URL and logo, you should use it instead of creating a new one.
1. Put the images for your sponsors in the `static/img/sponsors` directory. They need to be PNG files and named exactly after the name of the sponsor in your event file (and the corresponding sponsor data file), i.e., `static/img/sponsors/sponsorname.png`.
1. Add the new sponsor to your event's datafile with the appropriate level.

See [contrib/make_sponsors.rb](make_sponsors.rb) for another option.

### Updating a sponsor

If you want to update a sponsor, keep in mind that we don't want to retroactively change history for past events. See this [previous discussion](https://github.com/devopsdays/devopsdays-web/pull/503) for guidance. Basically you need to preserve past history before defining a changed default.

### Sponsor logos

Guidelines regarding sponsor logo files and formatting:

* The dimensions of the image file must be 200px square.
* The background must be either white or transparent.

All logos will be resized at release time, to 200px wide. Versions for high-density display (ex. Retina) will also be created. It is recommended that you do not use a sponsor logo that is smaller than 200px wide to keep from quality degradation at resize time.

## Team members

See the example team members listed in the generated data file. You can now add additional fields for each team member, as well as a photo. The photo must be in JPG format, and should be 300px x 300px. These images are located in the `static/events/YYYY-CITY/organizers` directory.

## Social sharing image

A sharing image is added to the Open Graph tags for your event pages, to improve the sharing on social networks such as Facebook (or in Slack). This image must be named `sharing.jpg` and located in `static/events/YYYY-CITY`. It should be a minimum 1200px x 630px, and use ratio: 1.91:1.

If no image is provided, then the meta tag will not be created. Facebook might try to infer it, but the links shared will just likely have no images.

## Speakers

Use [add_speakers.sh](add_speakers.sh) to add speakers and talks to an existing event. It will produce speaker-specific pages that link to their talk pages.

You can set additional optional frontmatter for speaker files:

```
Website = ""
Facebook = ""
Linkedin = ""
Pronouns = ""
Github = ""
Twitter = ""
```

If you have a two-speaker talk, create both speakers, add the talk under one of them, and set the talk file in `content/events/2017-ponyville/program/rainbow-dash.md` with a Speakers attribute like this:

```
Speakers = ["rainbow-dash","twilight-sparkle"]
```

### Program

Use [add_program.sh](add_program.sh) to add the program for your event. The program template expects 4 full talks each day and lists default times, but you can customize. The program data is stored in the event datafile such as `data/events/2017-ponyville.yml`. You don't need to know any or all of your speakers when adding the sample program, but if you have selected speakers you can list them on the program with this script.


### Speaker Images
The headshots for your speaker images should be approximately 500px wide. They will display fluidly based upon the screen size and versions for high-density display (ex. Retina) will also be created at build time. They must be in JPG format and named with the `.jpg` extension.

# Adding slides and video

After the event, you can set additional optional frontmatter for talk files such as `content/events/2017-ponyville/program/rainbow-dash.md`:

```
youtube = ""
vimeo = ""
speakerdeck = ""
slideshare = ""
slides = ""
```
